# Air Quality Index (AQI) overview
It's worth noting that while most people have heard of an "Air Quality Index" from their local weather service or news, the calculation of AQI from sensor readings is less well known.  Sensors measure and report particulate concentrations in various size ranges, the most widely used of which is "PM2.5", meaning airborne particulates of 2.5 microns in diameter or smaller, measured in micrograms per cubic meter.  
The more particulates measured the worse the air quality and, eventually, the greater the danger to humans and animals.  Howeveer, the perceived quality of the air and the risk from exposure vary in a non-obvious way based on the actual PM2.5 values observed.
That variability is what gave rise to the idea of an Air Quality Index in the first place, though as is often the case in associating health factors and risk with environmental data different governing bodies and standards organizations have put forward different ways of calculating risk from sensor data.  You can read much more about this in the Wikipedia page for [Air Quality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_quality_index).
In the US, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) developed its own AQI measure, dividing the normal range of measured particulates and pollutants into six categories indicating increased levels of health concerns.  An overall AQI value is calculated from a piecewise linear function, with scaling and transition points defined by the EPA.  More details on that math are shared in the Wikipedia page cited above, as well as this [post](https://forum.airnowtech.org/t/the-aqi-equation/169) on the AirNow tech forum.